Before we see what are the mechanisms or methods to set the price, what I want is that you
keep in mind, what I want to reinforce, that the pricing strategy is really important.
Warren Buffett tells us, it seems to me that it is a bit exaggerated, but he says that the
main variable to evaluate a business is the ability of that business to set
the price.
As I was saying, I think it is exaggerated, I think he is thinking of the companies that
he likes, which have such a barrier of entry, which have a lot of power to set the price
or to lead the price of that market.
But hey, in any case, keep in mind that if you are able to set the optimal price,
it will have a huge impact on your business and also, it is that curiously, this is something
that is usually ignored and the managers or the businessmen tend to forget about the price
as one of the key levers.
Demand is usually thought of as increasing, spending more in marketing, reducing costs,
etc.
But think about it, the price is usually forgotten.
I like to draw the pricing strategy from a target.
We have a target and the ideal goal would be to say in the center, that we were able
to set the optimal price.
The optimal price with a double goal.
It is not only to maximize the economic benefit, the price influences the margin that you are going
to have, it influences the demand on the number of products or services that you are going to sell.
This is the purely economic part.
But be careful, keep in mind that this is not just about maximizing the economic goal,
we have to take into account that the price is part of the story that you are telling.
It is part of your brand, it is part of your positioning, it is part of your competitive strategy.
Therefore, when we look at prices, we have to take into account both perspectives.
I say this because there are companies that, within their marketing mix strategy, when
they reach the price, what they do is think only in the economic part and, for example,
they abuse discounts, promotions or outlet-type channels, etc.
and in the end what they are doing is destroying their brand.
Perhaps they manage to maximize the economic benefit in the short term, they get what they
are looking for, but they are destroying their brand and in the end that is not sustainable.
Well, what I want us to learn is, we have seen the target, we have the target or perhaps
we can also illustrate it with a blank sheet.
How are we going to set the price?
What are we going to focus on?
Well, I want you to know that there is a triple approach, a triple perspective.
There are mainly three references that could be considered three methods of price setting,
but the reality, what I am telling you is that these three methods or approaches, or whatever
we want to call it, are usually used together in greater or lesser measure.
You are going to understand it now.
There are three, cost, competition and value.
We are going to set the price based on our cost.
What we do is calculate the fixed and variable costs, the direct and indirect costs, as you
want, apply a margin, which is the money we want to earn, and set our price.
This has been, this was the usual method of traditional price setting.
And if, for example, we think of distribution channels of the traditional ones, there is
a manufacturer that has a manufacturing cost of those products, in addition, it is usually
a very high cost, it can have a very high estimate, and what it does is apply a markup.
The markup is the increase in that price and it is sold to a distributor or a wholesaler.
Well, as we move forward in the supply chain, everyone applies their markup and
obtains a profitability.
The distributor, the retailer, usually applies a higher percentage, etc.
What are the pros of setting your price based on the cost?
Well, it is relatively simple and the main advantage is that you are ensuring, in principle,
I say in principle because it may not be sold, you are ensuring a profitability or
margins, some benefits.
The disadvantage is that you are forgetting about the client and you are forgetting about the competition
and this has happened, for example, with the arrival of globalization, that there are manufacturers
that in any sector that have arrived competitors of markets or low-cost countries, with a
much lower structure, and of course, if both use the same pricing method,
with products more or less similar, the one that has a much lower cost structure
will earn a lot of money, it will stay with the market.
Therefore, as we have seen, it is relatively easy to calculate, you are ensuring
that you are going to earn X money, you know it in advance, what happens is that you are forgetting
about the competition and you are forgetting about the client.
By the way, this simple estimate is something important because in many cases it is not
so easy to calculate, it is very difficult to calculate the price, it is also very difficult
to calculate your costs.
Well, let's go to the second approach, we are going to set the price based on the competition,
this is perhaps the simplest approach, something that is good because we have a very clear
price, we know in which market we are, we do a market study, we analyze what are
the prices that the different competitors have and what we do is choose a price a little
higher or a little lower depending on whether we are better or worse, it is very easy.
Let's think, for example, this is usually done whenever you want to sell a house,
what you do is analyze the average price of the square meter in the neighborhood where
you are selling your house and depending on the qualities, whether it is reformed or not,
the one that the farm reads, etc., what you do is put a higher or lower price, it is
very easy to set the price like this.
Benefits, well, it is easy, as we have said, it is very simple, disadvantages, you are forgetting
about your cost, you may be losing money and you are also forgetting about the client and
there is another one and that is that when industries work like this and all competitors what they
do is look at others, look at what the competition does to set the price, in the end you are forgetting
about the client and you are missing many opportunities.
And we go to the third of the perspectives, the third of the perspectives is that you look,
you forget about your cost, everything you can, you forget about the competition, everything
you can and what you do is set a price based on the value that you are providing to the client,
if you provide more value to the client you will have a higher price and you will earn more money.
In some cases, not only the value, but for example if your clients are captive clients,
if there are high costs of exchange, if there are entry barriers, if you are in a situation
almost of monopoly, well, what you do is raise the price because the client
cannot change, it is not really value, but the client in the end for one reason or another
will pay you.
This is perhaps the most orthodox and most client-centric way to set the price, what
happens is that we have seen the three, cost, competition and value, depending on the type
of market in which you are, you can choose or you can give more weight to one approach than to another.
If we are in markets, we are going to put an extreme, we are in very commoditized markets,
in which all competitors, for example, have very undifferentiated proposals and also
the client almost chooses by price, in this case it does make sense to use competition
mainly competition and almost what you can do is set the same price as
competition and you know that you are going to have a part of the market.
If we go to the extreme of very differentiated markets, in which clients perceive a lot of
value and there is a lot of difference between one provider and another, here there is much more
margin to set the price depending on the value.